# SanitizationRobot

Youtube video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wK9BdLJis1Y

**Purpose:** During this pandemic, doctors face a multitude of challenges. They need to get close to patients to examine and treat them. Having to spend that much time with someone while being up close to them makes doctors incredibly susceptible to the virus, hence putting them, their families, and other patients at a very high risk. Among doctors, dentists probably have it worse than anyone else, because most of their procedures generate aerosols. The aerosol is dangerous because if the patient is infected, it can spread the virus throughout a clinic and also remain suspended in the air for long periods of time, as informed by the CDC and WHO. In such a situation, there are two solutions to sanitize rooms after Aerosol Generating Procedures (AGPs). First is based on approved chemicals that can inactivate this virus. These chemicals are used for fogging and mopping the clinic. My mother, who is a dentist, tried this method, but quickly decided to use the other method since most of the approved chemicals are corrosive to expensive equipment, and are irritant to eyes and skin. The second method is using UV-C lights. UV-C lights are germicidal in nature and are very effective at killing the virus. They are considerably faster than fumigation and don’t use irritating chemicals. However, light travels in a straight line and hence, areas under shadows do not get disinfected. There are many stationary stands available that can hold these UV-C lights, but stationary lights leave such disinfected areas. This is a common problem with the UV-C approach. So, I came up with the idea of making a robot that would move these lights to different levels so that regions that are in a shadow can also be sanitized. Another problem we aimed to solve was to sanitize a greater area vertically because the effectiveness of the light decreases at farther distances. By moving the lights along the Z-axis, we were able to sanitize the air suspended above the dentist’s chair and other objects at a different height with appropriate intensity after each patient. An added benefit to this approach is that I can add a delay to when the lights switch-on after pressing the start button, to permit the operator to leave the room since UV rays are harmful to the human body on prolonged exposure.

**Structure of the robot:** The robot has a pulley system that moves 4 UV-C lights along the Z-axis. The ropes in this pulley system are pulled by a motor mounted behind the frame of the robot. Motor is controlled by 2 relays which allow the motor to turn in either direction based on inputs from an Arduino nano that serves as the brain of this robot. There are two more relays that control the power going into the chokes that are used to power the UV-C lights. These relays allow the Arduino to control the UV-C lights.

**Process:** The robot calibrates its position by bringing the lights to the “home” position, which is at the base of the robot. It then switches the lights on after waiting for 30 seconds, giving people enough time to leave the room. It then holds them in the position for 3 minutes, which is the recommended amount of time it takes to kill viruses in the range of the lights. The lights then move to the second position, which is about halfway to the top. Again, the robot holds the light here for 3 minutes, then moves the lights all the way up. After holding the lights here for another 3 minutes, calibration sequence is called again after which the robot waits for the user to press the start button.
